August Office Add-ins community call (#1908)
pnp/blog: content/office-add-ins-community-call/2024-09-11/index.md

date: 2024-09-11T07:00:00-05:00
author: "Mingjia Liu"
githubname: MingjiaLiu1995
categories: ["Office add in developer community call"]
images:
- images/office-add-ins-community-call-2024-09-11.png
tags: ["Office Add-ins","Microsoft 365"]
type: "regular"
videos:
- https://youtu.be/cJK9rvCTeAY
draft: false
---

# Office Add-ins developer platform community call - September 11

## This month's agenda and presenters

The call was hosted by [Mingjia Liu](https://www.linkedin.com/in/mingjia-liu-90a69a24a/), Product Manager, Microsoft.

> * **PowerPoint Preview APIs and Ribbon 1.1 API Updates** [Ester Bergen](https://www.linkedin.com/in/esterbergen/), Senior Product Manager at Microsoft.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **PowerPoint Preview APIs and Ribbon 1.1 API updates** [Ester Bergen](https://www.linkedin.com/in/esterbergen/), Senior Product Manager at Microsoft.
```

> * **Word API Update** [Yun Wang](https://www.linkedin.com/in/airwangyun/), Principal Product Manager at Microsoft and [Steve Jin](https://www.linkedin.com/in/steve-jin-61b08011), Senior Product Manager at Microsoft.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Word API updates** [Yun Wang](https://www.linkedin.com/in/airwangyun/), Principal Product Manager at Microsoft and [Steve Jin](https://www.linkedin.com/in/steve-jin-61b08011), Senior Product Manager at Microsoft.
```

* **A new NAA sample for Outlook event-based add-ins** [David Chesnut](https://www.linkedin.com/in/davidpchesnut), Senior Technical Writer at Microsoft.

> * **Visual Studio Code extension for Office Add-ins Public Preview** [Mingjia Liu](https://www.linkedin.com/in/mingjia-liu-90a69a24a/), Product Manager2 at Microsoft.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Visual Studio Code extension for Office Add-ins public preview** [Mingjia Liu](https://www.linkedin.com/in/mingjia-liu-90a69a24a/), Product Manager2 at Microsoft.
```

> * **WXP Add-ins with the Unified manifest for Microsoft 365 Public Preview** [Luyi Han](https://www.linkedin.com/in/luyihan/), Senior Product Manager at Microsoft.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **WXP Add-ins with the Unified manifest for Microsoft 365 public preview** [Luyi Han](https://www.linkedin.com/in/luyihan/), Senior Product Manager at Microsoft.
```

* **Q&A.** [Mingjia Liu](https://www.linkedin.com/in/mingjia-liu-90a69a24a/), Product Manager, Microsoft.

{{< youtube cJK9rvCTeAY >}}

## View video segments

* Introduction [00:00](https://youtu.be/cJK9rvCTeAY?t=0)

> * PowerPoint Preview APIs and Ribbon 1.1 API Updates [01:27](https://youtu.be/cJK9rvCTeAY?t=87)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* PowerPoint preview APIs and Ribbon 1.1 API updates [01:27](https://youtu.be/cJK9rvCTeAY?t=87)
```

> * Word API Update [04:56](https://youtu.be/cJK9rvCTeAY?t=296)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Word API update [04:56](https://youtu.be/cJK9rvCTeAY?t=296)
```

* A new NAA sample for Outlook event-based add-ins [12:20](https://youtu.be/cJK9rvCTeAY?t=740)

> * Visual Studio Code extension for Office Add-ins Public Preview [25:05](https://youtu.be/cJK9rvCTeAY?t=1505)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Visual Studio Code extension for Office Add-ins public preview [25:05](https://youtu.be/cJK9rvCTeAY?t=1505)
```

> * WXP Add-ins with the Unified manifest for Microsoft 365 Public Preview [27:02](https://youtu.be/cJK9rvCTeAY?t=1622)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* WXP Add-ins with the Unified manifest for Microsoft 365 public preview [27:02](https://youtu.be/cJK9rvCTeAY?t=1622)
```

* Q&A [33:16](https://youtu.be/cJK9rvCTeAY?t=1996)
* Resources [39:10](https://youtu.be/cJK9rvCTeAY?t=2350)

## Resources related to this blog's content

> PowerPoint Preview APIs and Ribbon 1.1 API Updates

Reviewer: ```suggestion

PowerPoint preview APIs and Ribbon 1.1 API updates
```

* [PowerPoint JavaScript preview APIs](https://learn.microsoft.com/javascript/api/requirement-sets/powerpoint/powerpoint-preview-apis?view=common-js-preview)
* [Ribbon API requirement sets](https://learn.microsoft.com/javascript/api/requirement-sets/common/ribbon-api-requirement-sets?view=common-js-preview#ribbon-api-11)
* [Enable and Disable Add-in Commands](https://learn.microsoft.com/office/dev/add-ins/design/disable-add-in-commands)

WXP Add-ins with the Unified manifest for Microsoft 365 Public Preview
* [Install the Office Add-ins Development Kit](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=msoffice.microsoft-office-add-in-debugger)

> * [M365 blog annoucement](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/microsoft365dev/announcing-the-office-add-ins-development-kit-for-visual-studio-code-public-preview/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [M365 blog announcement](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/microsoft365dev/announcing-the-office-add-ins-development-kit-for-visual-studio-code-public-preview/)
```

**I'm going to submit my Excel add-in on Partner Center Microsoft 365 and Copilot. I've created a related Partner Center SaaS transactable offer under the Commerical Marketplace. The SaaS offer setup has a section that asks do you have published Teams apps, Office Add-ins etc. and if you select the Yes radio button, it asks you to fill in your AppSource link. [This page](https://learn.microsoft.com/partner-center/marketplace-offers/plan-saas-offer) says: "For linked products, search on AppSource will return with one result that includes both SaaS and all linked add-ins. Customer can navigate between the product detail pages of the SaaS offer and linked add-ins. IT admins can review and deploy both the SaaS and linked add-ins within the same process through an integrated and connected experience within the Microsoft 365 admin center." So my understanding is that as soon as I publish my Excel add-in and its up on AppSource, I just copy that link and put it in my SaaS offer setup and publish it. Then there will be a single AppSource offer for my add-in that will be transactable. Is my understanding correct?**

> AFor submission process, please check the related document [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/partner-center/marketplace-offers/plan-saas-offer), where it shows you how to plan a SaaS offer for the Microsoft commercial marketplace. If you have additional questions about Publish Center, you can post them in our [Microsoft Partner Community​](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/category/PartnerCommunity).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For submission process, see [Plan a SaaS offer for the commercial marketplace](https://learn.microsoft.com/partner-center/marketplace-offers/plan-saas-offer). If you have additional questions about Publish Center, you can post them in our [Microsoft Partner Community​](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/category/PartnerCommunity).
```

Reviewer: Note that for accessibility, link text can never be "here." You must spell out the target link. The standard format is "For information about blah, see [full title of article]{URL}.

> AFor submission process, please check the related document [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/partner-center/marketplace-offers/plan-saas-offer), where it shows you how to plan a SaaS offer for the Microsoft commercial marketplace. If you have additional questions about Publish Center, you can post them in our [Microsoft Partner Community​](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/category/PartnerCommunity).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the submission process, see [Plan a SaaS offer for the commercial marketplace](https://learn.microsoft.com/partner-center/marketplace-offers/plan-saas-offer). If you have additional questions about the Publish Center, you can post them in our [Microsoft Partner Community​](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/category/PartnerCommunity).
```

**I've implemented the Microsoft SaaS Accelerator my SaaS transactable offer (which I will link to my Excel Partner Center Add-In offer). This creates a webhook, landing page and admin portal for my SaaS offer, which I have been testing. The admin portal shows me the Purchaser Email and Marketplace Subscription ID. I've been working on getting SSO working for my add-in (just starting to test it) which I think is referred to as Authentication. I think I will still need to figure out how to get Authorization working, so only those folks who have purchased the transactable app on AppSource can use it. Can you provide some guidance on how to implement this?**

> Single Sign-On (SSO) Authentication: Since you're already working on SSO, you're setting up a way to authenticate users based on their existing Microsoft identity. This part of the setup confirms the identity of the users. The official documentation on implementing SSO for Office Add-ins can be found [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/office/dev/add-ins/develop/sso-in-office-add-ins?tabs=jsonmanifest).​

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Single Sign-On (SSO) Authentication: Since you're already working on SSO, you're setting up a way to authenticate users based on their existing Microsoft identity. This part of the setup confirms the identity of the users. For the official documentation, see [Enable single sign-on (SSO) in an Office Add-in](https://learn.microsoft.com/office/dev/add-ins/develop/sso-in-office-add-ins?tabs=jsonmanifest).​
```

> Authorization via SaaS Fulfillment APIs: For authorization, you'll need to check if the user has an active subscription for your SaaS offer after they are authenticated. This involves using the Microsoft SaaS Fulfillment APIs, which allow you to verify subscription status. Here’s the documentation on [SaaS Fulfillment API](https://learn.microsoft.com/partner-center/marketplace-offers/partner-center-portal/pc-saas-fulfillment-life-cycle).​

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Authorization via SaaS Fulfillment APIs: For authorization, you'll need to check if the user has an active subscription for your SaaS offer after they are authenticated. This involves using the Microsoft SaaS Fulfillment APIs, which allow you to verify subscription status. For more information, see [SaaS Fulfillment API](https://learn.microsoft.com/partner-center/marketplace-offers/partner-center-portal/pc-saas-fulfillment-life-cycle).​
```

**When I submit my Excel add-in to the Partner Center it says "Provide any critical testing instructions, including test accounts, license keys and test credentials. Failure to do so results in an automatic rejection ." Once I get Authorization working for my transactable app, is there some sort of a way to provide a back-door so that I can give that info to the Partner Center Certification team?**

> You can set up a test account and add the necessary information to your critical test instructions. Please check [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/partner-center/marketplace-offers/add-in-submission-guide). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can set up a test account and add the necessary information to your critical test instructions. For more information, see the [Store step-by-step submission guide](https://learn.microsoft.com/partner-center/marketplace-offers/add-in-submission-guide). 
```

**I have uploaded all of my Excel Add-in dist folder files to my Azure subscription Storage account Blob Container $web folder, which my Manifest points to. Is this the appropriate place to put these files? Should it only contain a subset of the dist folder files? This location does work, but I'm not sure how to secure this location so that someone can't find this location and take all these files.**

> Yes, uploading your Excel Add-in distribution files to your Azure subscription's Storage account Blob Container in the $web folder is an appropriate and common practice. However, there's no way to prevent from other people getting as the locations of these manifests are public, so they can be accessed by others.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Yes, uploading your Excel Add-in distribution files to your Azure subscription's Storage account Blob Container in the $web folder is an appropriate and common practice. However, there's no way to prevent from other people getting access as the locations of these manifests are public.
```
Getting what? I assume "access?" Please clarify, this sentence seems to be missing a word.

Author: Yes, getting access to the manifests
